# TorpedoEvasion-DS_PDQN
The repository contains files which implements the paper: "Dynamic Multi Threat Evasion in Autonomous Vehicles using Parameterized Actions". The repository consists of three python files which are as follows:
1. Environment_PDQN_DS.py: This python files implements the underwater environment and simulates the torpedo evasion events. The action of AUV is as per the command received from the RL agent (implemented in PDQN_DS.py). The torpedo follows proportional navigation using which it tries to home in on the AUV. If decoy(s) launched by the AUV is able to succesfully deceive the torpedo, the proportional navigation based homing logic targets the decoy and gets destroyed. This file is not directly executable and is a helper file. 
2. PDQN_DS.py: This python files implements the DeepSets redefined PDQN which controls the RL agent such that intelligent actions of the AUV can be generated. The actions generated from this RL agent is used in Environment_PDQN_DS.py file for simulating the actions of the AUV. This file is also not directly executable and is a helper file. 
3. Training_DS.py: This is the executable file with the main function. The file controls the RL episodes by running the underwater environment simulation, observes and abstracts the state of the environment and calculates rewards. Since, we are using an Off-Policy RL algorithm, a replay buffer is used which is also populated. When appropriate, samples are taken from the replay buffer and the RL agent is trained.
4. Expt-2.py: Once the RL agent is trained, this file is used to run the experiments to obtain results for the relevant metrics with all variations of environmental factors.
5. training_output.log: Output from training sessions. This file is generated by redirecting console output to the log file when Training_DS.py file is executing
6. pdqn_ds_final.pth, pdqn_param_final.pth, pdqn_q_final.pth: Files related to trained RL model. These files are generated at the end of training using the execution of Training_DS.py file.       


Execution: 
1. Download the files   
2. cd to the folder at the location of the downloaded files
3. Run $python Training_DS.py
  a. Console output: Results of training to monitor progress
  b. File output: Trained model is saved at an interval of 100 episodes. At the end of training, the trained model is loaded which can be used for effective  control of the AUV actions.
4. Run $python Expt-2.py
   a. This execution requires the trained AI model saved in .pth files. The accompanying .pth files can also be used instead of running training scripts and generating them anew.    
   b. Console Output: Results of the experiments    




